Section 1: Identify the network protocol involved in the incident

The incident involved accessing the website yummyrecipesforme.com, and these use http traffic. 
Hence the protocol involved in the incident is the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). 
In addition, the tcpdump records show the use of http protocol by the malicious file.



Section 2: Document the incident

Several customers contacted the website’s helpdesk stating that when they
visited the website, they were prompted to download and run a file that
contained access to new recipes. Their personal computers have been
operating slowly ever since. The website owner tried logging into the web
server but noticed they were locked out of their account.
The cybersecurity analyst used a sandbox environment to open the website
without impacting the company network. Then, the analyst ran tcpdump to
capture the network traffic packets produced by interacting with the website.
The analyst was prompted to download a file claiming it would provide access
to free recipes, accepted the download and ran it. The browser then
redirected the analyst to a fake website (greatrecipesforme.com).
The cybersecurity analyst inspected the tcpdump log and observed that the
browser initially requested the IP address for the yummyrecipesforme.com
website. Once the connection with the website was established over the HTTP
protocol, the analyst recalled downloading and executing the file. The logs
showed a sudden change in network traffic as the browser requested a new IP
address for the greatrecipesforme.com URL. The network traffic was then
rerouted to the new IP address for the greatrecipesforme.com website.
The senior cybersecurity professional analyzed the source code for the
websites and the downloaded file. The analyst discovered that an attacker had
manipulated the website to add code that prompted the users to download a
malicious file disguised as a browser update. Since the website owner stated
that they had been locked out of their administrator account, the team
believes the attacker used a brute force attack to access the account and
change the admin password. The execution of the malicious file compromised
the end users’ computers.


Section 3: Recommend one remediation for brute force attacks

The following enhanced security measures would be recommended:

•	Requiring more frequent password changes, reduces the likelihood of an unauthorized person, such as a former employee, to gain access
•	Disallowing previous passwords from being used, since incident was driven by use of an old default password
•	Implementing Multi-factor or two-factor authentication (2FA), significantly reduces the risk of a malicious actor being able to brute force their way into a network
